Caroll/pros and cons of real (#130)
vendia/blog: posts/2022-06-07-real-time-data-sharing-pros-cons.md

3. **Better partnerships**

Partners often rely on having a trusted, single source of the truth that they align around as they work together. Those that do this well are successful, profitable, and stay together. By integrating deeper with your partners’ data around a shared truth, you can start thinking through the journey holistically instead of in bite sizes. This leads to a better understanding of your partners and their challenges, it removes distrust in the business relationship, and ensures everyone is aware of their responsibilities and maximizes their profit. 

## The cons of real-time data sharing

**Anyone who works with data knows that volume and speed requirements play a big part in how time-consuming, difficult, and expensive it is to build and maintain the infrastructure supporting it. Here are some of the cons of real-time data sharing:**

1. **Time consuming and complex to build**

>     True real-time data sharing can be extremely hard to design, build, and implement across multiple partners. While point-to-point APIs between two partners is somewhat straightforward, but when multiple parties get involved, the challenges grow exponentially, which makes it time-consuming and costly to build. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    True real-time data sharing can be extremely hard to design, build, and implement across multiple partners. While point-to-point APIs between two partners is somewhat straightforward, when multiple parties get involved, the challenges grow exponentially, which makes it time-consuming and costly to build. 
```

2. **Difficult to create a shared and trusted source of truth**

    Creating a single source of truth that all parties trust is no straight-forward task. In order for this to happen, all partners will need the ability to view and audit all data without the ability to alter the data itself. This demands a highly complex solution that not only reconciles all incoming data in real time to determine what’s truly the latest, it also requires strict data governance and logging of every transaction and change ever taken place.   

3. **Expensive to build and maintain**

    In order for real-time data to work, your system needs to have high availability of at least 99.99% of the time to ensure all data is truly up to date at all times. Building a system that is redundant, resilient, secure, and scalable, can be extremely costly and time-consuming to build and maintain in-house.

## How Vendia streamlines real-time data sharing

> Vendia has built a B2B data-sharing platform that gives you all the benefits of real-time data sharing without all the headaches. Vendia has designed a platform that brings all data sharing parties together around a single source of truth that is updated in real-time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vendia has built a real-time data-sharing platform that gives you all the benefits of real-time data sharing without all the headaches. Vendia has designed a platform that brings all data sharing parties together around a single source of truth that is updated in real-time.
```

Reviewer: B2B shows up here for the first time and seems out of place. The focus so far has been on "real-time".

> Vendia has built a B2B data-sharing platform that gives you all the benefits of real-time data sharing without all the headaches. Vendia has designed a platform that brings all data sharing parties together around a single source of truth that is updated in real-time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vendia has built a data-sharing platform that gives you all the benefits of real-time data sharing without all the headaches. Vendia has designed a platform that brings all data sharing parties together around a single source of truth that is updated in real-time.
```

Reviewer 2: First mention of B2B - I don't think it helps the narrative.

**Easy integration through a single access point**

> Every partner gets an access point (a node) to the Vendia Share platform, with access to their own copy of the latest data across the data-sharing partnership. Every partner can easily connect their system (whether cloud or on-premise) to Vendia, no need to build or maintain multiple API connection points, and you can be up and running in a matter of days. 

Reviewer: `on-premise` is mostly aspirational, at least compared with the quality of our cloud integrations

**Indisputable, single source of truth**  

Vendia automatically reconciles data at all times, to ensure only the latest data appears on everyone’s copy of “the truth”. Every transaction and change is recorded on everyone’s copy at the same time, giving everyone visibility of current and past states. This allows full visibility for everyone and even makes it possible to audit prior transactions to settle disputes or gain other insights.  

**Secure data exchange** 

> Vendia is designed in such a way that you can refine and tightly control exactly what you share (and don’t share) so you only exchange the data that is relevant to other partners, without the risk of sharing intellectual property or sensitive data. Furthermore the platform is SOC2 certified and PII compliant. 

Reviewer: I'd cross-check SOC2 and PII with DB and Kevin.  SOC2 is in remediation.  PII compliance is left to the user.

> Vendia is designed in such a way that you can refine and tightly control exactly what you share (and don’t share) so you only exchange the data that is relevant to other partners, without the risk of sharing intellectual property or sensitive data. Furthermore the platform is SOC2 certified and PII compliant. 

Reviewer 2: Can we say the platform is SOC2 Type 2 certified at this time? What does PII compliant mean?

**Powered by the cloud**

> Unlike on-premise solutions or Consumer-to-Consumer blockchain platforms, Vendia’s B2B Blockchain platform is powered by the cloud and delivered as a serverless Saas service. This means that virtually infinite computing and scales is available on-demand with the majority of costs based on capacity used.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike on-premise solutions or public blockchain platforms, Vendia’s enterprise blockchain platform is powered by the cloud and delivered as a serverless SaaS. This means that virtually infinite computing and scale is available on-demand with the majority of costs based on capacity used.   
```

**Faster innovation**

> Vendia’s B2B Blockchain Platform spins up in minutes, and connects partners with ease, without the need for ongoing maintenance. This allows you to focus on what matters to your company, partners, and your customers.

Reviewer: Same comment on B2B vs. real-time vs. public/private.  I don't have a strong opinion on which will resonate, but we should pick one and use throughout.  I think interchanging terms will lose people.

> Vendia’s B2B Blockchain Platform spins up in minutes, and connects partners with ease, without the need for ongoing maintenance. This allows you to focus on what matters to your company, partners, and your customers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vendia’s platform spins up in minutes, and connects partners with ease, without the need for ongoing maintenance. This allows you to focus on what matters to your company, your partners, and your customers.
```

### Bring real-time data sharing to your organization

> If you are ready to explore how real-time data sharing might help accelerate your business, you can request a free Proof of Concept of Vendia. Request a POC and get four free hours with one of our experienced solutions architects.

Reviewer: I just noticed the ordering of steps on this page - https://www.vendia.net/poc - is confusing.  Step 1 is answer the questions.  Step 2 is four free hours (only if the answers to the questions lead us to think we can help). Step 3 is build a POC.

## The cons of real-time data sharing

Anyone who works with data knows that volume and speed requirements play a big part in how time-consuming, difficult, and expensive it is to build and maintain the infrastructure supporting it. Here are some of the cons of real-time data sharing:

1. **Time consuming and complex to build**

>     True real-time data sharing can be extremely hard to design, build, and implement across multiple partners. While point-to-point APIs between two partners is somewhat straightforward, when multiple parties get involved, the challenges grow exponentially, which makes it time-consuming and costly to build. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    True real-time data sharing can be extremely hard to design, build, and implement across multiple partners. Managing point-to-point APIs between two partners is somewhat straightforward. The challenges grow exponentially when three or more parties get involved. The solution is time-consuming and costly to build. 
```
